This is a quick install guide.  I have to assume you know what you're doing
with databases and servlets.

BEFORE YOU BEGIN!!!

Make sure you read the project home page and have all of the components listed
under ``What Do I Need To Start My Own'' and that they're all working
properly as best as you can tell.



DATABASE SETUP

I'm currently using postgres 7, but I believe a slightly older version will
work.  Begin by creating the ``photo'' database, and the ``nobody'' user.
Although photoservlet could theoretically be run with another database, it
would require some application changes, and probably some other works.

You can use another database name if you'd like, just make sure you modify
all config files to reflect the new database name.  If you want to use
a different username, you can do that as well, but you'll have to modify
the bootstrap script (etc/photo.sql) and replace all references to
``nobody'' with your new username.

Once you can connect to the ``photo'' database as the user ``nobody,''
execute all of the commands in the script etc/photo.sql.  You will need to
do this as a user who has access to create tables in the database.  If
there are any errors, report them as bugs, please, and try to get ahold of
me.  :)



HELPER APPLICATION SETUP

There are two things that must be running for this to work, the servlet
itself, and the helper applications.  The easiest way to start is probably
going to be to take all of the .conf files in the etc directory, and copy
them into /usr/local/etc.  It's probably a good idea to flip through the
files and make sure they're correct for your environment.

Make sure your CLASSPATH environment variable contains all of the classes
required for operation including spy.jar, photo.jar, DbConnectionBroker,
and the driver for your database (postgresql.jar).

Start the applications with the following command:

	java net.spy.SpyRunner /usr/local/etc/spyrunner.conf

It'll produce some output telling you how it's doing.  It should start up
all the necessary helper applications and let you know how each went.  If
any fail, it's probably not going to work.


SERVLET SETUP

With your servlet engine having all of the necessary classes in its path
(spy.jar, photo.jar, oro.jar, DbConnectionBroker, and postgreql.jar), you
should be able to try out your photoservlet by making the following
request:

	http://myserver/servlet/net.spy.photo.PhotoServlet

the ``myserver'' will obviously vary, and so will the /servlet/ portion.
Some configurations use /servlet, some use /servlets, etc...  It's probably
a good idea to run a couple of test servlets just to make sure you've got
your servlet engine running correctly before you start.


NOW WHAT

When you're first setting up your photoservlet, you'll probably
want to create categories and users and stuff.

There's a non-obvious link at the bottom that tells you as what user you're
authenticated.  Clicking on that will take you to the authentication
screen.  By default, there's an ``admin'' user with the password ``admin''
you can use to make all of the changes you need.  After authenticating, go
back to the authentication screen and click on the ``Request Administrative
Privileges'' link to go into admin mode.  This will give you a few more
links you can play around in.

Please, please, please change the admin password before anything else.  You
can do that by going into the user admin, select ``admin,'' then type
something into the password column, then clicking on the save button.
Next, create a few categories for your images.

It's probably a good idea to add a couple other users with access to add images
and to see the various categories you created.  You don't want all of your
images showing up as ``admin'' do you?  :)

Let me know if you have any problems.

$Id: HOWTO,v 1.2 2000/06/26 07:20:07 dustin Exp $
